1. Number (assigned by the RIPE NCC)
2. Remove multihoming requirement from AS number assignment criteria
3. Saku Ytti <ytti@tdc.net> TDC Oy, Job Snijders <job@ntt.net> NTT
4. Proposal Version (assigned by the RIPE NCC)
5. 2014-04-18
6. address-policy-wg@ripe.net
7. modification
8. Indefinite
9. Relax Assignment Criteria in RIPE-525
10. Policy Text
11. Rationale
12. Pro's & Con's
13. Author remarks

a. Current policy text
----------------------

2.0 Assignment Criteria

In order to help decrease global routing complexity, a new AS Number
should be used only if a new external routing policy is required, see
RFC1930.

A network must be multihomed in order to qualify for an AS Number.

When requesting an AS Number the routing policy of the Autonomous System
must be provided. The new unique routing policy should be defined in
RPSL language, as used in the RIPE Database.

The RIPE NCC will assign the AS Number directly to the End User upon a
request properly submitted to the RIPE NCC either directly or through a
sponsoring LIR.  AS Number assignments are subject to the policies
described in the RIPE NCC document entitled “Contractual Requirements
for Provider Independent Resource Holders in the RIPE NCC Service
Region”.
-----------------------

b. Proposed policy text

-----------------------
2.0 Assignment Criteria

A new AS Number is only assigned when the End User has a need that cannot be
satisfied with an existing AS Number. RIPE NCC will record, but not evaluate
this need.

To discourage excessive resource consumption, the sum of AS Numbers assigned to
a single organisation may not exceed one-thousand.

When requesting a 16 bit AS Number, the network must be multihomed within 9
months after the assignment. Failure to multihome within this timeframe will
result in de-registration of the assignment. A 32 bit AS Number is exempt from
the multihoming requirement.

When requesting an AS Number, the routing policy of the Autonomous System must
be provided. The new unique routing policy should be defined in RPSL language,
as used in the RIPE Database.

The RIPE NCC will assign the AS Number directly to the End User upon a request
properly submitted to the RIPE NCC either directly or through a sponsoring LIR.
AS Number assignments are subject to the policies described in the RIPE
Document “Contractual Requirements for Provider Independent Resource Holders in
the RIPE NCC Service Region”.

-----------------------

11. Rationale

The current policy assumes that Autonomous Systems, and its peerings are
globally visible, with the Autonomous System being multi-homed to at
least two other Autonomous Systems. However there are situations when
one requires a globally unique AS number where one or both of these
presumptions is incorrect.  Limited visbility is observed in the context
of GRX peering, or a more common case: one might be its own upstream,
which supports reducing the peering requirement from two to one.

A common practice (observed by the authors) these days is to have the AS
applicant fill in as peerings 1) the Autonomous System number of the
actual provider, and 2) a Route Collector with a globally unique ASN.
The authors believe there is value in aligning the policy with reality,
rather than continuing in the current, less transparent, way.

The authors expect that the RIPE NCC, when needed, will present aggregated view
of AS multihoming needs for community's consideration. Examples of typical
needs would be: RFC1930, RFC2270, multihoming, preparation to Multihoming (when
second provider is as of yet undeciced), connecting separately maintained
private networks and private networks where uniqueness of private ASN cannot be
guaranteed.

12. Pro's & Con's

a. Arguments supporting the proposal

* In context of layer-3 MPLS VPN, you may wish to run eBGP on the CE both
  in the PE's direction and the CustomerLAN's direction. The Service
  Provider's PE has your regular ASN, and every CE in the network could
  share the same AS number via use of as-override function and Site of
  Origin community.  But a Private AS number might not be a good
  candidate as CustomerLAN may already use that AS number.  With current
  policy you are forced to evaluate CE configuration in each case
  creating unnecessary complexity.

* A network might not be multihomed today, but wants to prepare all
  infrastructure so it can multi-home at a moment's notice, or have some
  form of mobility in terms of suppliers.

* The accuracy of the RIPE Whois Database is more important than anything.
  The authors suspect that already today organisations deem the value of
  obtaining a globally unique ASN higher than providing truthful
  information regarding its peers to the RIPE NCC. By simply not
  requiring potentially falsified information the process' transparency
  is increased.

b. Arguments opposing the proposal

* Could it be that previously aggregated prefixes are unbundled and under
  the new policy the fragments are originated by by a set of Autonomous
  System with a single, common upstream?

13. Authors' remarks

The "one-thousand ASNs per organisation" anti-hoarding number is based on the
following: at the moment of writing, the largest amount of ASNs a single
organisation has is 100. Setting the number at tenfold current maximum usage
will allow for growth but prevent a single organisation from consuming all
resources.
